README.md, before:

<p align="center">
  <img width="450" src="./img/logo.svg">
</p>
<p align="center"> 
Transform, validate and run your data pipelines using SQL and Python.
</p>

<p align="center">
<a href="https://golang.org/"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/--00ADD8?logo=go&logoColor=ffffff"></a>
<a href="https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/datablast-analytics/blast"><img src="https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/datablast-analytics/blast"></a>
<a href="https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/datablast-analytics/blast"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/datablast-analytics/blast"></a>
<a href="https://slack.getblast.io"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/community-%23blast-green?logo=slack&labelColor=gray&color=28A745"></a>
<a href="https://github.com/datablast-analytics/blast/blob/master/LICENSE.md"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/datablast-analytics/blast/build-test.yml"></a>
</p>

---

Blast is a command-line tool for validating and running data transformations on SQL, similar to dbt. On top, Blast can
also run Python assets within the same pipeline.

- ✨ run SQL transformations on BigQuery/Snowflake
- 🐍 run Python in isolated environments
- 💅 built-in data quality checks
- 🚀 Jinja templating language to avoid repetition
- ✅ validate data pipelines end-to-end to catch issues early on via dry-run on live
- 📐 table/view materialization
- ➕ incremental tables
- 💻 mix different technologies + databases in a single pipeline, e.g. SQL and Python in the same pipeline

- ⚡ blazing fast pipeline execution: Blast is written in Golang and uses concurrency at every opportunity

![Blast CLI](./resources/blast.svg)

## Installation

You need to have Golang installed in the first place, then you can run the following command:

```shell
go install github.com/datablast-analytics/blast@latest
```

Please make sure to add GOPATH to your executable path.

## Getting Started

All you need is a simple `pipeline.yml` in your Git repo:

```yaml
name: blast-example
schedule: "daily"
start_date: "2023-03-01"

default_connections:
  google_cloud_platform: "gcp"
```

create a new folder called `assets` and create your first asset there `assets/blast-test.sql`:

```sql
-- @blast.name: dataset.blast_test
-- @blast.type: bq.sql
-- @blast.materialization.type: table

SELECT 1 as result
```

Blast will take this result, and will create a `dataset.blast_test` table on BigQuery. You can also use `view`
materialization type instead of `table` to create a view instead.

> **Snowflake assets**
> If you'd like to run the asset on Snowflake, simply replace the `bq.sql` with `sf.sql`, and define `snowflake` as a
> connection instead of `google_cloud_platform`.

Then let's create a Python asset `assets/hello.py`:

```python
# @blast.name: hello
# @blast.type: python
# @blast.depends: dataset.blast_test

print("Hello, world!")
```

Once you are done, run the following command to validate your pipeline:

```shell
blast validate .
```

You should get an output that looks like this:

```shell
Pipeline: blast-example (.)
  No issues found

✓ Successfully validated 2 tasks across 1 pipeline, all good.
```

If you have defined your credentials, Blast will automatically detect them and validate all of your queries using
dry-run.

## Environments

Blast allows you to run your pipelines / assets against different environments, such as development or production. The
environments are managed in the `.blast.yml` file.

The following is an example configuration that defines two environments called `default` and `production`:

```yaml
environments:
  default:
    connections:
      google_cloud_platform:
        - name: "gcp"
          service_account_file: "/path/to/my/key.json"
          project_id: "my-project-dev"
      snowflake:
        - name: "snowflake"
          username: "my-user"
          password: "my-password"
          account: "my-account"
          database: "my-database"
          warehouse: "my-warehouse"
          schema: "my-dev-schema"
  production:
    connections:
      google_cloud_platform:
        - name: "gcp"
          service_account_file: "/path/to/my/prod-key.json"
          project_id: "my-project-prod"
      snowflake:
        - name: "snowflake"
          username: "my-user"
          password: "my-password"
          account: "my-account"
          database: "my-database"
          warehouse: "my-warehouse"
          schema: "my-prod-schema" 
```

You can simply switch the environment using the `--environment` flag, e.g.:

```shell
blast validate --environment production . 
```

### Running the pipeline

Blast CLI can run the whole pipeline or any task with the downstreams:

```shell
blast run .
```

```shell
Starting the pipeline execution...

[2023-03-16T18:25:14Z] [worker-0] Running: dashboard.blast-test
[2023-03-16T18:25:16Z] [worker-0] Completed: dashboard.blast-test (1.681s)
[2023-03-16T18:25:16Z] [worker-4] Running: hello
[2023-03-16T18:25:16Z] [worker-4] [hello] >> Hello, world!
[2023-03-16T18:25:16Z] [worker-4] Completed: hello (116ms)

Executed 2 tasks in 1.798s
```

You can also run a single task:

```shell
blast run assets/hello.py                            
```

```shell
Starting the pipeline execution...

[2023-03-16T18:25:59Z] [worker-0] Running: hello
[2023-03-16T18:26:00Z] [worker-0] [hello] >> Hello, world!
[2023-03-16T18:26:00Z] [worker-0] Completed: hello (103ms)


Executed 1 tasks in 103ms
```

You can optionally pass a `--downstream` flag to run the task with all of its downstreams.

## Upcoming Features

- Secrets for Python assets
- More databases: Postgres, Redshift, MySQL, and more

## Disclaimer

Blast is still in its early stages, so please use it with caution. We are working on improving the documentation and
adding more features.

If you are interested in a cloud data platform that does all of these & more as a managed service check
out [Blast Data Platform](https://getblast.io).

Commit message:

add a link to our slack

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
  <img width="450" src="./img/logo.svg">
</p>
<p align="center"> 
Transform, validate and run your data pipelines using SQL and Python.
</p>

<p align="center">
<a href="https://golang.org/"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/--00ADD8?logo=go&logoColor=ffffff"></a>
<a href="https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/datablast-analytics/blast"><img src="https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/datablast-analytics/blast"></a>
<a href="https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/datablast-analytics/blast"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/datablast-analytics/blast"></a>
<a href="https://slack.getblast.io"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/community-%23blast-green?logo=slack&labelColor=gray&color=28A745"></a>
<a href="https://github.com/datablast-analytics/blast/blob/master/LICENSE.md"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/datablast-analytics/blast/build-test.yml"></a>
</p>

---

Blast is a command-line tool for validating and running data transformations on SQL, similar to dbt. On top, Blast can
also run Python assets within the same pipeline.

- ✨ run SQL transformations on BigQuery/Snowflake
- 🐍 run Python in isolated environments
- 💅 built-in data quality checks
- 🚀 Jinja templating language to avoid repetition
- ✅ validate data pipelines end-to-end to catch issues early on via dry-run on live
- 📐 table/view materialization
- ➕ incremental tables
- 💻 mix different technologies + databases in a single pipeline, e.g. SQL and Python in the same pipeline

- ⚡ blazing fast pipeline execution: Blast is written in Golang and uses concurrency at every opportunity

![Blast CLI](./resources/blast.svg)

## Join our community

We are excited to have you as part of our growing community! Connect with fellow users, share your experiences, and contribute to the development of Blast CLI. Here's how you can get involved:

- Join our [Blast Slack workspace](https://slack.getblast.io) to connect with other users, ask questions, and share your experiences on all things data.
- GitHub: Contribute to the Blast CLI repository, report issues, or suggest new features by creating a pull request or opening an issue.

We look forward to having you in our community! 


## Installation

You need to have Golang installed in the first place, then you can run the following command:

```shell
go install github.com/datablast-analytics/blast@latest
```

Please make sure to add GOPATH to your executable path.

## Getting Started

All you need is a simple `pipeline.yml` in your Git repo:

```yaml
name: blast-example
schedule: "daily"
start_date: "2023-03-01"

default_connections:
  google_cloud_platform: "gcp"
```

create a new folder called `assets` and create your first asset there `assets/blast-test.sql`:

```sql
-- @blast.name: dataset.blast_test
-- @blast.type: bq.sql
-- @blast.materialization.type: table

SELECT 1 as result
```

Blast will take this result, and will create a `dataset.blast_test` table on BigQuery. You can also use `view`
materialization type instead of `table` to create a view instead.

> **Snowflake assets**
> If you'd like to run the asset on Snowflake, simply replace the `bq.sql` with `sf.sql`, and define `snowflake` as a
> connection instead of `google_cloud_platform`.

Then let's create a Python asset `assets/hello.py`:

```python
# @blast.name: hello
# @blast.type: python
# @blast.depends: dataset.blast_test

print("Hello, world!")
```

Once you are done, run the following command to validate your pipeline:

```shell
blast validate .
```

You should get an output that looks like this:

```shell
Pipeline: blast-example (.)
  No issues found

✓ Successfully validated 2 tasks across 1 pipeline, all good.
```

If you have defined your credentials, Blast will automatically detect them and validate all of your queries using
dry-run.

## Environments

Blast allows you to run your pipelines / assets against different environments, such as development or production. The
environments are managed in the `.blast.yml` file.

The following is an example configuration that defines two environments called `default` and `production`:

```yaml
environments:
  default:
    connections:
      google_cloud_platform:
        - name: "gcp"
          service_account_file: "/path/to/my/key.json"
          project_id: "my-project-dev"
      snowflake:
        - name: "snowflake"
          username: "my-user"
          password: "my-password"
          account: "my-account"
          database: "my-database"
          warehouse: "my-warehouse"
          schema: "my-dev-schema"
  production:
    connections:
      google_cloud_platform:
        - name: "gcp"
          service_account_file: "/path/to/my/prod-key.json"
          project_id: "my-project-prod"
      snowflake:
        - name: "snowflake"
          username: "my-user"
          password: "my-password"
          account: "my-account"
          database: "my-database"
          warehouse: "my-warehouse"
          schema: "my-prod-schema" 
```

You can simply switch the environment using the `--environment` flag, e.g.:

```shell
blast validate --environment production . 
```

### Running the pipeline

Blast CLI can run the whole pipeline or any task with the downstreams:

```shell
blast run .
```

```shell
Starting the pipeline execution...

[2023-03-16T18:25:14Z] [worker-0] Running: dashboard.blast-test
[2023-03-16T18:25:16Z] [worker-0] Completed: dashboard.blast-test (1.681s)
[2023-03-16T18:25:16Z] [worker-4] Running: hello
[2023-03-16T18:25:16Z] [worker-4] [hello] >> Hello, world!
[2023-03-16T18:25:16Z] [worker-4] Completed: hello (116ms)

Executed 2 tasks in 1.798s
```

You can also run a single task:

```shell
blast run assets/hello.py                            
```

```shell
Starting the pipeline execution...

[2023-03-16T18:25:59Z] [worker-0] Running: hello
[2023-03-16T18:26:00Z] [worker-0] [hello] >> Hello, world!
[2023-03-16T18:26:00Z] [worker-0] Completed: hello (103ms)


Executed 1 tasks in 103ms
```

You can optionally pass a `--downstream` flag to run the task with all of its downstreams.

## Upcoming Features

- Secrets for Python assets
- More databases: Postgres, Redshift, MySQL, and more

## Disclaimer

Blast is still in its early stages, so please use it with caution. We are working on improving the documentation and
adding more features.

If you are interested in a cloud data platform that does all of these & more as a managed service check
out [Blast Data Platform](https://getblast.io).
